---
layout: post
title: 'Minecraft 1.17 - Caves & Cliffs: Part 1'
---

It&rsquo;s here. The Cave Update, with a side of cliffs. That&rsquo;s right, The Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I is launching today!<br>

Now you can finally swim with the glow squid, fight alongside the axolotls, and get rammed off a mountain by a goat.<br>

You can also build with new blocks like copper, pointed dripstone, and moss, hang some hanging roots and cave vines, and marvel at the new ore textures.<br>

Light up your homes, caves, mineshaft and lives with the glow berry. Build a spyglass and peep your next adventure or just keep track of what that creeper over yonder is doing.<br>

Wait, what is it doing? Is it getting closer, or is this spyglass just really good?<br>

Have fun with Part I!.<br>

**Changelog:**<br>
\* Added Dripstone Block and Pointed Dripstone<br>
\* Added Block of Amethyst, Budding Amethyst, Amethyst Cluster, and Amethyst Bud<br>
\* Added Block of Raw Iron, Copper, and Gold<br>
\* Added Candles<br>
\* Added Copper<br>
\* Added Deepslate<br>
\* Added Glow Lichen<br>
\* Added Lava Cauldron<br>
\* Added Lightning Rod<br>
\* Added Lush Caves Block<br>
\* Added Powder Snow<br>
\* Added Raw Copper, Raw Iron, and Raw Gold items<br>
\* Added the Axolotl<br>
\* Added the Glow Squid<br>
\* Added the Goat<br>
\* Added Spyglass<br>
\* Added Tinted Glass<br>
\* A Shulker hitting a Shulker with a Shulker Bullet can make a new Shulker<br>
\* Additions to Wandering Trader and Mason trades<br>
\* Bundles and Shulker Box items will drop their contents when destroyed<br>
\* Changed Infested Block destroy times<br>
\* Changes to Shipwreck and Mineshaft loot<br>
\* Dirt Paths (formerly Grass Path) can now be made by using a Shovel on Dirt, Podzol, Mycelium, or Coarse Dirt (as well as Grass)<br>
\* Drowned now has a chance of dropping a Copper Ingot, and they no longer drop Gold Ingots<br>
\* Experience Orbs now sometimes merge when in large quantities to improve performance. This does not change the rate at which the player can absorb them, it simply limits the amount of separate orbs floating around in the world. Orbs that merge will gain the lifetime of the most recently created one.<br>
\* Holding down the space bar now increases the scroll speed in the credits<br>
\* Minecarts and Rails work in water<br>
\* Particles now appear when Pistons break blocks<br>
\* Reordered some blocks in the Building Blocks Tab in the Creative Menu<br>
\* Reordered the Redstone Tab in the Creative Menu<br>
\* Simple Firework Rockets with one Gunpowder can now be crafted using the recipe book<br>
\- Removed Herobrine<br>

**GET THE RELEASE:**<br>

Cross-platform server jar:<br>
\* [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/v1/objects/0a269b5f2c5b93b1712d0f5dc43b6182b9ab254e/server.jar)<br>

Report bugs here:<br>
\* [Minecraft issue tracker!](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC)<br>
