---
layout: post
title: 'Minecraft 1.18 - Caves & Cliffs: Part II'
---

It&rsquo;s been quite the trek, but we&rsquo;re here. At the summit. The Caves & Cliffs Update: Part II is out today, completing the much anticipated cave update.<br>

What better way to celebrate than by climbing to the top of a higher than ever mountain. Let&rsquo;s take a moment and just take in that view.<br>

Wait. What&rsquo;s that sound. Don&rsquo;t tell me that goat is back. AAAAARGH. Ouff! Ouch! Ow!<br>

Where am I? It&rsquo;s dark down here! It&rsquo;s almost as if I fell a greater distance than I would have before today. Figures.<br>

While I try to get out of this dripstone cave, I hope you enjoy all of the new features that 1.18 brings. Could you pass me a candle before you leave? It really is dark down here.<br>

**Changelog:**<br>
\* Added an &ldquo;Allow Server Listings&rdquo; option to opt out of having your name displayed in server listings<br>
\* Added an Online options screen where you can now find the Realms Notifications option<br>
\* Added new Overworld biomes<br>
\* Added noise caves and aquifers<br>
\* Added world autosave indicator for single-player worlds<br>
\* Axolotls now have their own, separate, mob cap<br>
\* Axolotls now only spawn in Lush Caves when in water that is above Clay Blocks<br>
\* Badlands Mineshafts now generate higher up<br>
\* Buried Treasure Chests may contain a Potion of Water Breathing<br>
\* Changed default brightness to 50<br>
\* Cod, Salmon, Pufferfish, Tropical Fish, Squid, and Dolphins now only spawn in water from height 50 to height 64<br>
\* Frozen Peaks biome<br>
\* Glow Squids now only spawn in water blocks under height 30<br>
\* If it is raining, sleeping will stop the rain and reset the weather cycle (in 1.17 sleeping would always reset the weather cycle)<br>
\* Illagers (Vindicator, Pillager, Evoker) no longer attack baby villagers<br>
\* New music has been added to the game<br>
\* New ore distribution and large ore veins<br>
\* Overworld build and generation limits have been expanded<br>
\* Raised the cloud level from 128 to 192<br>
\* Redesigned how effects look in the inventory screen, to allow them to show even with recipe book open<br>
\* Removed world types &ldquo;Caves&rdquo; and &ldquo;Floating islands&rdquo; from the world creation screen<br>
\* Sprinting is no longer reduced to walking when gently brushing your sleeve against a wall<br>
\* Tropical Fish now also spawn in Lush Caves at any height<br>
\* Villages are slightly more spread out<br>
\* World spawn selection algorithm has been reworked, now spawns player according to climate parameters<br>
\- Removed Herobrine<br>

**GET THE RELEASE:**<br>

Cross-platform server jar:<br>
\* [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/v1/objects/3cf24a8694aca6267883b17d934efacc5e44440d/server.jar)<br>

Report bugs here:<br>
\* [Minecraft issue tracker!](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC)<br>
