---
layout: post
title: Minecraft 1.19 - The Wild Update
---

Oh, hello. I didn&rsquo;t see you there! I was too busy inspecting these mangrove tree roots. They&rsquo;re all tangled up! What do you mean they&rsquo;re supposed to be? Hey, that&rsquo;s pretty neat.<br>

While we&rsquo;re on the topic – have you had a chance to check out all the other spiffy stuff that we added to Minecraft today?<br>

Because The Wild Update has officially launched and now the Overworld is full of frogs, allays, wardens (*shudder*), mud, boats with chests, new music, and much, much more!<br>

You can check out the list below for all the details, I&rsquo;m too busy making heart eyes at these cute propagules to go through them all.

**Changelog:**<br>
\* Added Mangrove Swamp biome<br>
\* Added Mangrove Trees<br>
\* Added Mangrove Blocks<br>
\* Added Mud and Mud Brick Blocks<br>
\* Added Clay renewability<br>
\* Added Frogs and Tadpoles<br>
\* Added the Deep Dark biome<br>
\* Added Ancient Cities<br>
\* Added Darkness mob effect<br>
\* Added Disc Fragment and Music Disc 5<br>
\* Added Echo Shard and Recovery Compass<br>
\* Added the Swift Sneak enchantment<br>
\* Added Sculk, Sculk Veins, Sculk Shrieker, and Sculk Catalyst Blocks<br>
\* Added Warden mob<br>
\* Added Allay mob<br>
\* Added Boat with Chest<br>
\* Added Goat Horns<br>
\* Added new music<br>
\* Leaves are now waterloggable<br>
\* The main menu background now shows a Wild Update panorama<br>
\* Minor changes to Minecart with Chest/Furnace/TNT/Hopper<br>
\* Improved the predictability a number of gamplay elements<br>
\* Explosions caused by player-ignited TNT now cause experience to drop from broken blocks (such as ore and sculk blocks)<br>
\* Added sound option for 3D Directional Audio simulation<br>
\* Replaced Realms subtle selected world highlight with a clear green checkmark<br>
\- Removed Herobrine<br>

**GET THE RELEASE:**<br>

Cross-platform server jar:<br>
\* [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/v1/objects/e00c4052dac1d59a1188b2aa9d5a87113aaf1122/server.jar)<br>

Report bugs here:<br>
\* [Minecraft issue tracker!](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC)<br>
